In the following repository, one can find a branch dedicated to each individual experiment as used in the manuscript: **"Emergent survival and extinction of species within gut bacterial communities":**
TrA0 (stable assembly experiment for two different defined media), 
TrA1 (core experiment with 14 different defined media, three different inoculum mixes, and two different pH), and 
TrA2 (single strain addition/exclusion experiment for two different defined media).
In each respective branch, one can find the associated R-script and required input files (csv or otherwise) used for analysis and figure generation as included in the manuscript.

**Paper abstract:**
Synthetic communities can help uncover metabolic forces shaping microbial ecosystems. Yet, in case of the gut microbiota, culturing in undefined media has prevented detection of metabolic dependencies. Here we show, using chemically defined media, how species survival is jointly determined by supplied resources and community metabolism. We used 63 representative gut bacterial strains and varied inoculum compositions to assemble stable communities in 14 defined media. Over 95% of the species showed markedly improved or diminished performance relative to monoculture in at least one condition, including 153 cases (21%) of emergent survival, i.e., species incapable of surviving on their own but thriving in a community, and 252 (35%) community-driven extinctions. Through single species additions and exclusions, metabolomic analysis, and ecological modelling, we demonstrate how inter-species dependencies – especially in poor media – are mediated by biotic nutrient supply. Our results highlight communal metabolic dividend as a key biotic force promoting emergent survival and diversity.
